FOREWORD

Since the present fifth volume of Professor Georg Sverdrup’s collected writings is issued before the fourth, this has been done in order to meet the wish, expressed by many, that it might as soon as possible be made accessible to the common people.

It will doubtless be fitting to accompany this volume with some remarks concerning its contents. Over the course of many years, the author expounded the Old Testament, as well as those writings of the New Testament which in a particular manner exhibit the connection between the two parts of the Bible. The principal point of view under which he regarded and presented the books thus treated may, with a certain degree of definiteness, be indicated as this: the Lord’s dealings with His chosen people, and the object thereof in the history of that people. It was therefore of special importance to him to point out the great, definite moments in Israel’s history, and to show how these were most closely bound together with, and determined by, the counsel of salvation revealed by the Lord through the Law and the Prophets. This “red thread” in the history of the patriarchs he always sought to indicate, both for the sake of the reality of salvation-history itself within the sphere of the Old Testament, and for the instruction and guidance contained therein for the Christian congregation in the time of the New Testament. In the closest connection with this stood also his view of the priesthood and of the priests as those who have the prophetic calling toward the New Testament congregation.

From this point of view the contents of the present volume of his writings must likewise be judged if they are to be rightly understood. It should particularly be noted that the surveys here published are not to be regarded as expositions in the usual sense of the word, but as a presentation of the living thoughts contained in the respective writings. For this reason many questions which otherwise would have had to be included are simply passed over, or at least very briefly touched upon. In order, however, to forestall misunderstanding, I nevertheless add—though it is in fact unnecessary to mention—that the oral instruction naturally took up these questions and in general filled out the schematic presentation of the surveys.

In the surveys here published there are in particular three principal moments which find expression. These are: the Lord’s testimony in word and deed to the chosen people; the experiences of the people, bound to God’s revelation and salvation; and the fulfillment of God’s counsel of salvation through the establishment of the congregation prepared by the blood of Jesus. The first finds its expression through the Prophets, the second through the Psalms, and the third through the Gospel of Matthew, the Epistle to the Hebrews, and the Epistle of James.

Finally, I remark that the manuscript for a large part of the contents of this volume is from the author’s younger days, and that had he been permitted to live and publish it himself, it would naturally have been reworked and expanded to a considerable degree. Under the circumstances, the editor has here nothing else to do than to publish it in the form in which it lay before him. For an expansion on the basis of notes from the lectures would have entailed a labor which, in the first place, would require a disproportionate amount of time, and which moreover would also in other respects involve great difficulties.

It is nevertheless my hope that this memorial also of the departed teacher, which the present volume contains, may become a source of benefit and joy in a wider circle.

Andreas Helland

Minneapolis, Minnesota, December 6, 1910.
